## Single tier 
Here a database is directly accessible to the user. It means the user can directly reside on a DBMS and uses it. Any changes done here will directly be done on the database itself. And, it doesn’t provide a handy tool for end-users.
**eg.
1-Tier is used where the Client, Server, and _[Database](https://www.edureka.co/blog/what-is-a-database/)_ all reside on the same machine. Anytime you install a Database in your system and access SQL queries, it is the 1 tier architecture that is used.

## 2-tier
The two-tier architecture is the same as the basic client-server. In this architecture, **applications on the client end can directly communicate with the database at the server-side. In order to communicate with the DBMS, the client-side application establishes a *connection with the server-side.

Whenever the client machine makes a request to access the database present in the server using _[SQL](https://www.edureka.co/blog/what-is-sql/)_, the server performs the request on the database and returns the result back to the client.
eg., API's like ODBC,JDBC are used for this interaction.

## 3-tier

The 3-Tier architecture contains a *layer between the client and the server.* Here, the **client can’t directly communicate with the server. The end-user has no idea about the application server. The database also has no idea about any other user beyond the application.**

*The application present on the client-end interacts with an application server which in turn communicates with the database system.

It has three layers or tiers namely, Presentation layer, Application layer, and Database layer.

-   **Database Tier:** In this tier, a database is present along with its processing languages (Query). You also have the relations that define the data and their constraints at this level.
    
-   **Application Tier:** It is also called the middle tier. This tier consists of application server and the programs that access the Database. **For a user, this application tier showcases an abstract view of the Database.** At the other end, the Database tier is not aware of other users beyond the application tier. **Therefore, the application layer sits in the middle and acts as a mediator between the end-user and the Database.
    
-   **User Tier:** This is also called as a Presentation tier. The end-users operate in this tier and know nothing about the existence of the Database beyond this layer. **In this layer, multiple _[views](https://www.edureka.co/blog/sql_view/)_ of the Database can be provided by the application. All views are generated by applications that are present in the Application tier.

###### Advantages: 
- **Enhanced scalability due to distributed deployment of application servers.** Now,individual connections need not be made between client and server. 
- **Data Integrity is maintained.** Since there is a middle layer between client and server, ***data corruption can be avoided/removed.***
- **Security is improved**. This type of model *prevents direct interaction of the client with the server* thereby **reducing access to unauthorized data**. 
###### Disadvantages: 
- **Increased complexity of implementation and communication.** It becomes **difficult for this sort of interaction to take place due to presence of middle layers.**